Allow setting of SCC credentials via environment variables (#80)
SUSE/container-suseconnect: README.md

`/var/log/suseconnect.log` file. Otherwise, you can optionally specify a custom
path with the `SUSECONNECT_LOG_FILE` environment variable. To retrieve the
contents of the log, you will have to mount the needed volume in your host.

You can do this with either the
[VOLUME](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#volume) instruction
in your Dockerfile, or with the `-v` parameter when running `docker run`. Read
more about this [here](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/).

Finally, if neither the default `/var/log/suseconnect.log` file nor the file
specified through the `SUSECONNECT_LOG_FILE` environment variable are writable,
then this program will log to the standard error output by default.

## Example Dockerfile

Creating a SLE 15 Image

> The following Docker file creates a simple Docker image based on SLE 15:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following `Dockerfile` creates a simple container image based on SLE 15:
```

RUN zypper -n in vim
```

Creating a Custom SLE 15 SP5 Image

> The following Docker file creates a simple Docker image based on SLE 15 SP5:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following `Dockerfile` creates a simple container image based on SLE 15 SP5:
```

RUN zypper -n in vim
```

All recommended package modules are enabled by default. It is possible to

> enable additionally non-recommended modules via the `identifier` by setting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enable additional non-recommended modules via the `identifier` by setting the
```

registered at the SUSE Customer Center, RMT or SMT.

A Docker version of 18.09 or above is needed to provide a secure way to mount
the credentials into the image build process.

> A `Dockerfile` for building a SLE15 image which contains `go` would then look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `Dockerfile` for building a SLE15 image which contains `go` would then look as follows:
```

### Alternative approach when using podman as the container runtime

When using `podman` as the container runtime, add the following to
`/etc/containers/mounts.conf` (when building containers as `root`) or
`~/.config/containers/mounts.conf` (when building containers as a regular
user):

```text
<path_on_host>/SUSEConnect:/etc/SUSEConnect
<path_on_host>/SCCcredentials:/etc/zypp/credentials.d/SCCcredentials
```

No further change are needed in `Dockerfile`.

### Obtaining the SUSEConnect and SCCcredentials secrets

> Ideally the host system on which your container builds are running is
> registered. In all other cases, you need to manually start the container you
> would like to register and execute `SUSEConnect` inside:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally the host system on which the container builds are executed is
registered. Otherwise start the container that should be registered 
and execute `SUSEConnect` inside it:
```

```bash
SUSEConnect -e <youremailaddress> -r <yourregistrationcode>

> cat /etc/SUSEconnect
> cat /etc/zypp/credentials.d/SCCcredentials

Reviewer: Is this part necessary?
```suggestion
```

```

As a last resort, for example for interactive use of the container, you can
pass the obtained username and password via environment variables

```bash
env SCC_CREDENTIAL_USERNAME=<credential_username>
env SCC_CREDENTIAL_PASSWORD=<credential_password>
```

> 
> These can be passed in the container also at start time via the `docker run -e ENV=key` options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See

> [LICENSE](https://github.com/SUSE/container-suseconnect/blob/master/LICENSE) for the full license text.

Reviewer: Relative links should work :crossed_fingers: 
```suggestion
[LICENSE](./LICENSE) for the full license text.
```

### Alternative approach when using podman as the container runtime

When using `podman` as the container runtime, add the following to
`/etc/containers/mounts.conf` (when building containers as `root`) or
`~/.config/containers/mounts.conf` (when building containers as a regular
user):

```text
<path_on_host>/SUSEConnect:/etc/SUSEConnect
<path_on_host>/SCCcredentials:/etc/zypp/credentials.d/SCCcredentials
```

No further change are needed in `Dockerfile`.

### Obtaining the SUSEConnect and SCCcredentials secrets

Ideally the host system on which the container builds are executed is
registered. The credentials stored on the host system in
`/etc/zypp/credentials.d/SCCcredentials`
can be used to register containers running or building on that host as well.

Otherwise start the container that should be registered and execute
`SUSEConnect` inside it:

```bash
SUSEConnect -e <youremailaddress> -r <yourregistrationcode>
```

In case you have a registration code that hasn't otherwise be used, you
can use the USERNAME "regcode" and the given registration code as password.

> For example for interactive use of containers you can also
> pass the obtained username and password via environment variables

Reviewer: For two times in a row makes the sentence sound odd.

```suggestion
For interactive use of containers you can also
pass the obtained username and password via environment variables
```

No further change are needed in `Dockerfile`.

### Alternative approach without any mounts or registration of the host system

If your host system is not a registered SUSE product, you can pass in the
registration information from another system. For that, you need to manually
start the and execute `SUSEConnect` inside:

```bash
SUSEConnect -e <youremailaddress> -r <yourregistrationcode>
cat /etc/zypp/credentials.d/SCCcredentials
```

If the registration succeeded, you can pass the obtained username and password
via environment variables into your container builds:

```bash
env SCC_CREDENTIAL_USERNAME=<credential_username>
env SCC_CREDENTIAL_PASSWORD=<credential_password>

> ```

Author: this isn't the dockerfile "ENV" statement. its bash..

> ```bash
> env SCC_CREDENTIAL_USERNAME=<credential_username>
> env SCC_CREDENTIAL_PASSWORD=<credential_password>
> ```

Reviewer: Ooops, this looked a lot like a `Dockerfile`… how about this instead:

```suggestion
```bash
docker run -e SCC_CREDENTIAL_USERNAME=<credential_username> \
    -e SCC_CREDENTIAL_PASSWORD=<credential_password> \
    my-image
```
```
